Improve readability & accuracy on Energy consumption page (#4924)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/energy-consumption/index.md

# Ethereum energy consumption {#introduction}

> Ethereum's current energy expenditure with [Proof of Work](/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/#proof-of-work) is too high and unsustainable. Resolving energy expenditure concerns without sacrificing security and decentralization is a significant technical challenge and has been a focus of research and development for years. Let's explore why building Ethereum has had a high environmental impact and how the upcoming network upgrade to [Proof of Stake](/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pos/#top) will dramatically change this.

Reviewer: Small tweak as per [the site convention](https://ethereum.org/en/contributing/style-guide/#proof-of)

```suggestion
Ethereum's current energy expenditure with [proof-of-work](/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/#proof-of-work) is too high and unsustainable. Resolving energy expenditure concerns without sacrificing security and decentralization is a significant technical challenge and has been a focus of research and development for years. Let's explore why building Ethereum has had a high environmental impact and how the upcoming network upgrade to [proof-of-stake](/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pos) will dramatically change this.
```

## Energy secures the network {#energy-secures-the-network}

Transactions on the Ethereum blockchain are validated by [miners](/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pow/mining). Miners bundle together transactions into ordered blocks and add them to the Ethereum blockchain. The new blocks get broadcast to all the other node operators who run the transactions independently and verify that they are valid. Any dishonesty shows up as an inconsistency between different nodes. Honest blocks are added to the blockchain and become an immutable part of history.

The ability for any miner to add new blocks only works if there is a cost associated with mining and unpredictability about which specific node submits the next block. These conditions are met by imposing proof-of-work (PoW). To be eligible to submit a block of transactions, a miner must solve an arbitrary computational puzzle faster than any other miner. Solving this puzzle creates competition between miners and costs in the form of energy expenditure. To successfully defraud the blockchain, a dishonest miner would have to consistently win the proof-of-work race, which is very unlikely and prohibitively expensive.

> Ethereum has used proof-of-work since genesis. Migrating off of proof-of-work and to proof-of-stake has always been a fundamental goal of Ethereum. However, developing a proof-of-stake system that adheres to Ethereum's core principles of security and decentralization is not trivial and has required a lot of research and breakthroughs in cryptography, cryptoeconomics, and mechanism design (but it _is_ [possible](/#proof-of-stake)).

Reviewer: I really don't like the use of a header-id to a paragraph 6 lines away, it could feel very janky to the user depending on their screen size. How about:

```suggestion
Ethereum has used proof-of-work since genesis. Migrating off of proof-of-work and onto proof-of-stake has always been a fundamental goal of Ethereum. However, developing a proof-of-stake system that adheres to Ethereum's core principles of security and decentralization is not trivial. It has required a lot of research and breakthroughs in cryptography, cryptoeconomics, and mechanism design to get to a point where the transition is possible.
```

Author: Sounds much better 👍

## Proof-of-stake {#proof-of-stake}

A greener future for Ethereum is already being built in the form of a [**proof-of-stake (PoS)** chain](/eth2/beacon-chain/). Under [proof-of-stake](/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pos/), arbitrary puzzle-solving is unnecessary. Removing puzzle-solving drastically reduces the energy expenditure required to secure the network. Miners get replaced by validators who perform the same function except that instead of expending their assets up-front in the form of computational work, they stake ETH as collateral against dishonest behavior. If the validator is lazy (offline when they are supposed to fulfill some validator duty) their staked ETH can slowly leak away, while provably dishonest behavior results in the staked assets being "slashed". This strongly incentivizes active and honest participation in securing the network.

> Similarly to proof-of-work, a malicious entity would require at least 51% of the total ETH staked in the network in order to perform a [51% attack](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/1/51-attack.asp). However, unlike on proof-of-work, where the potential loss of a failed attack is only the cost of generating the hash power needed to mine, on proof-of-stake, the possible loss of an attack is the entire amount of ETH used as collateral. This disincentive structure allows for network security with proof-of-stake while eliminating the need to expend energy on arbitrary computations. Detailed explanations of the network security under proof-of-stake can be found [here](/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pos/) and [here](https://vitalik.ca/general/2017/12/31/pos_faq.html).

Reviewer: Let's link to our glossary for this.

```suggestion
Similarly to proof-of-work, a malicious entity would require at least 51% of the total ETH staked in the network to execute a [51% attack](/glossary/#51-attack). However, unlike on proof-of-work, where the potential loss of a failed attack is only the cost of generating the hash power needed to mine, on proof-of-stake, the possible loss of an attack is the entire amount of ETH used as collateral. This disincentive structure allows for network security with proof-of-stake while eliminating the need to expend energy on arbitrary computations. Detailed explanations of the network security under proof-of-stake can be found [here](/developers/docs/consensus-mechanisms/pos/) and [here](https://vitalik.ca/general/2017/12/31/pos_faq.html).
```
